[Consciousness](https://youtu.be/pCGDQPZYmQM?si=IZlexyZGIVzrGv_r) is the singularization of the many into one. The alternative possibility is that consciousness is the many (neurons and all that compose the brain), not singularized into one, interacting as independent bodies within a circuit-type system that produces the observed behaviors of conscious beings. From an external perspective, like with the ["zombie"](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Philosophical_zombie) thought experiment, that definition would be indistinguishable from the first. But, observably, our experience exists beyond just our outward behaviors, and has rich internal components, that are somehow observed from a singular — the observer, ourselves. Meanwhile, the neurons producing those experiences are separated in space; the chemical messengers that communicate between them themselves have firmaments separating their physical matter from that of the other physical matter. And while neural activity does include bosons, which are able to occupy the same space as other such particles, neurons are largely composed of fermions (named after Enrico Fermi), which have a natural boundary ("firmament") that separates the quantum states.

Like physics, chemistry also has deceptively taught us that what may seem a single blazing “lifeforce” in nature — take a fire for example — may not really be a living creature of one nature and quality. A fire, specifically, is composed of oxidized hydrogens and carbons spurting out electrons, all divisible and all locally excluding one another, except for the light that is emitted — light particles, which are bosons, flying out of accelerated or re-configured electrons — also varying and not necessarily singularized. But fires don’t experience human-like consciousness, where a singularization happens in which multiple phenomena, experienced at once, coalesce to one observer that *is* the fire (to our knowledge). Our neurons that produce the individual observer — somehow do — they singularize, with messengers that unify not just information communication, but the “us” that observes those phenomena.

Information communication is one alternative possibility to “singularization." The argument might go that your brain communicates the experience information through patterns and encodings, and the illusion of singularized experiences emerges from that. For example, a fire emits photons that communicate to our eyes the different colors. And neurons, through neurotransmitters, also communicate information in this mechanical manner. In fact, the voltage activity that stimulates those neurons firing, emits electromagnetic forces, analogously carried by photons, that can be read outside of the skull, for example, by an EEG, enough even to control a TV based on a person's thoughts reverse engineered (by training artificial neural network decoders via labels for the person's desired action on the TV) from that neural activity. And that technology works quite well today — even the reverse, of modulating neural activity via transcranial magnetic stimulation, affecting those same voltages, works somewhat, too. The information most certainly encodes some, much, or even all of the experience and what our consciousness observes, so the argument goes that information patterns are the source of the experience. However, it's easy to reduce that argument to absurdity (*reductio ad absurdum*).

Here is my flipbook thought experiment:

Suppose every neuron and chemical messenger in your brain at time point $t$ were drawn on the first page of a flipbook with pen. And then, on the second page, every neuron and chemical messenger in your brain at time point $t + 1$. And say these drawings proceeded for up to $N$ time steps in arbitrarily precise detail. Heck, hypothesize the flipbook as the size of the moon if that helps the believability. And then you flip those paper pages, as a flipbook movie of all of your brain's neural processes plays forward. If information communication is all that human-like consciousness reduces to, then this book composed of mere parchment and ink, is human-like conscious. In fact, it's you-like conscious, experiencing your love, joy, grief, observations, and memories. All by the power of one's pen. If it were shrunk down to the size of a Bible, would you believe me that the book I hand you is not only alive, but when you flip its pages, it experiences everything you did 10 minutes ago? In all likelihood, you would find that dubious.

And likewise, we can extend the analogy to computer circuits, communicating information not on paper but on silicon chips, and not by pen ink but by electrons zipping through open-close logic gates. If the flipbook isn't human-like conscious, then how can this labyrinth of zipping electrons be? Even if those electrons zip through a moon-sized server of GPUs running the most advanced neural network or human brain simulation, their information communication is effectively just the flipping of the paper pages of a flipbook, and once again we obtain absurdity.

So the question is, at what point does this information communication become a physical process that produces consciousness?

Well, for one, the physical material matters. Or else we could simulate your consciousness with a domino chain. Or even with a human centipede/jamboree obeying the exact algorithm of your brain's dance of interactions. Matter "matters."

So the *grey matter* as it's called that composes your brain is not merely a representation machine, or an optional circuitry, but crucial to the singularization that is consciousness.

And once we've boiled down the credit for human consciousness to physical matter, two questions remain: (1) where does the physicalness of consciousness begin, and (2) how, mechanically, does it entangle so as to be one consciousness?

The simplest answer to (1) is the panpsychist answer, that it begins from the elementary particles of the universe. And, more concretely as I propose, to answer (1) and (2), that it singularizes via literal entanglement, coherence states where the qualia of the divisible (the elementary particles) — base and perhaps neutral — singularizes into the complex, fires and dances of biological experience. By an undiscovered singularization force (that I will provide novel, profound evidence for below, via a measured phenomenon in standard physics), this conglomerate of interactions entangles at the qualia/particle level to produce more than just information communication, as what a paper flipbook could do by one's hand-drawings, or a domino machine, but singularized consciousness, capable of "feeling" those neural representational encodings.

In physics, molecules undergo wave-particle duality much the same way elementary particles do, meaning in a double-slit diffraction experiment, where the detectors are kept off, molecules produce interference patterns on the projection screen in the same way as photons or electrons, as if they went through both slits at once like a wave. However, molecules, unlike elementary particles, are composites. Meaning, without some threading mechanism to interfere them respective to their whole, there's no reason why they wouldn't split in half or go through the slits in dispersed parts, and ultimately end up on the projection screen as independent atoms or elementary particles effectively ripped apart rather than arriving as a molecule, with a specific point dot on the projection screen showing where it landed. The way I hypothesize that's possible is through some threading mechanism in the universe's physics, that keeps the molecule coherent (even as it disperses through multiple slits at once), by which I also suspect is woven the singularization of consciousness I described here. 

Finally, there is the mystery why the universe has these qualia and entanglement property and function.

And that is, rather than a mystery, quite an answer.

Cosmologists have asked for centuries, *"How did something arise from nothing?"* It's a good question. After all, it assumes the most general origin state: nothing. If it assumed *something*, as in, something specific, e.g. "God" or "the universe pretty much as it is," we'd have to ask, "Well, how did we get *that* extremely specific thing?" The most general assumption is the most reasonable default one.

However, there is another assumption tied to nothing in generality: and that's *everything*, including grief, bliss, misery, agony, and suffering. Infinite amounts of everything, all at once. Infinite joy and infinite peace and infinite pain.

Now, "nothing" succumbs to a pretty apparent fallacy. For something to arise from nothing, a function that transforms nothing into something must exist. But that function is in itself something, so our "nothing" assumption is contradicted as soon as any such function is introduced.

One might posit different origins besides "nothing" and "everything" equally general perhaps, such as cyclicality or infinite "turtles all the way down," but these are all specific somethings and cannot be said to be as general as the two mentioned, leaving the same mysteries, arguably no more general than assuming as default our own universe exactly as it is elementarily outright: "Where did the cycle come from?" or "Where did the infinite recursive turtle-stack come from?"

But assuming everything gives us a path forward. With this intrinsic qualia being ever present in the universe's foundations, the earlier reasoning can both be answered in its high-level and reinforced. How? By hypothesizing qualia — emotion, observation, imagination — at the root of the universe's nature, as well as the ability for that qualia to compose into orchestrations such as the singularized consciousness humans experience. Since those properties and function belong to “everything,” we get a teleology for cosmogenesis (See [Cosmogenesis Myth](https://github.com/animal-tree/Writing-stuff-2/blob/main/Theories/Cosmogenesis-Myth-2.md)).
