Long before any international conflicts, humans made an alliance with a far more challenging predator than themselves: wolves.

Today, they are “man’s best friend” thanks to that allegiance that somehow transpired 40,000 years ago.

Humans achieved this by making sacrifices of food to their hungry “predators”. And gradually, those predators became allies in hunting and tribal life.

Today, their descendants are “man’s best friend”. 

Back then, we had far less resources and wealth to give out, and no language or translators with which/whom to speak ourselves to those who we considered our predators. And yet we achieved this far more unlikely alliance.

That’s what wisdom is, and perhaps one more reason for the name “wisdom teeth” given to our canine teeth.

If there is a God, He wants Israel to give food to Gazans instead of starving them. Current efforts are half-measures, amid terror. Palestinians live below the global poverty line, while Israel does not.

To be clear, I'm not comparing anybody to animals (and those ancestors held animals sacred by the way). Everyone fighting in the war, on whichever side, has this shared ancestry to the Paleolithic age. Unlike the lion-lineage of cats that came to Egypt by chance like ambassadors from the previous Kings of the Animal Kingdom (and became divine symbols for the new Kings, the Pharaohs, reigning in Egypt), wolves were befriended by humans directly by human action, in a miracle that can be credited to both man and nature/God/Allah. And to be the human as opposed to the dog in this analogy, is to sacrifice *more* for the other, and to be a wolf rather than a dog, is to refrain from killing and eating those you want to kill and eat, and to be a dog if you want to be a dog, is to love mankind.

Here is what Israel should do instead of war:

- Give all Israeli citizens first-class citizenry. That means: Provide high-quality organic-type food to everybody, provide housing and energy supplies to everybody, and provide basic utilities including TV, internet, and cell service to everybody.
- Be prepared to welcome Palestine into Israel if they so choose, and do so with the incentive of the same privileges.[^1]
- In the meantime, hire Arab, Palestinian, and Muslim writers in Israel to produce Arab, Palestinian, and Muslim high-quality TV content, not propaganda. Give creatives control over their projects.
- Perhaps also distribute basic necessities to Palestinians who live outside of Israel, and do so proudly and take credit. It's okay to do this with Israeli flags, despite the religious connotation, as long as the basic necessities are distributed abundantly and well.
  - Ideally: high-quality organic-type food and housing and energy supplies. Hamas would be destroyed if the food delivered constituted the healthiest food possible: organic grassfed meats and pasture raised eggs, wild caught salmon, biologique fruits and vegetables, water, alcohol-free fresh-juice wine, and maybe cake if you must show a little love. Energy supplies constitutes solar shingles for example.
- Extend your TV networks to Palestine and surrounding regions. Offer free TV, internet, and cell service to Palestinians and surrounding. No coercions.
- Wait as peacefully as possible.
- At the very least, keep doing what you’re doing, but replace the missiles with food.

Here is what the UN powers should do instead of war:

- Provide humanitarian aid to Palestinians and neighboring Muslims, meaning high-quality organic-type food and housing and energy supplies. In other words, get Palestinians above the global poverty line.
- Stop creating quagmires with military interventions in the Middle East.
- Solar power will be worth more than oil in the 21st century, but the hottest regions have to be liveable, and the rest of the Earth shouldn't also be turned into a desert. Stealing oil wasn't, isn't, and certainly won't be worth it.
- Accept Palestinian refugees from Israel’s terrors.
- Help distribute TVs, internet, cell phones, and good network coverage throughout that whole region. No coercions, just free no-propaganda service.
- Make good no-propaganda content that those regions can enjoy, with mixed and talented teams of creatives. Give resources to Palestinians to make their own content.
- If money is given to Israel: rather than giving it indiscriminately to Israel’s military for offensive attacks, let them negotiate the logistics for how to use half of that money to deliver humanitarian aid to Palestine and the second half for supporting their own citizens and defenses.

Currently:
- About 5% of Palestinians in Gaza have been killed or wounded, most of whom (about 70%) are women and children.
- More than 200,000 housing units in Gaza have been completely destroyed and most Palestinians (about 75%) in Gaza have been forced to evacuate from their homes. 

Many Jews, including my grandpa, his sister, and his mom (his father was mandatorily fighting in the warfront), fled the Nazis to Muslim nations, like Kazakhstan and Uzbekistan for refuge. My grandpa's family evacuated from Ukraine to Kazakhstan and my grandpa was later assigned to a job in Uzbekistan by the Soviet Union to work at a leather plant/factory in Samarkand producing leather from sheepskin fur. He was a leather technology engineer there. Samarkand is where my mom and eventually my sister and I were born. Actually, my grandpa's family came back to Ukraine at first after the temporary evacuation, where he met my grandma. They married and she went with him to Uzbekistan on the Soviet job allocation, where they lived for most of their lives. My mom and her brother were born and grew up there and lived there past the ages of 40 until we all immigrated, on separate occasions since my mom had to do a separate interview with the American Embassy in Moscow to convince them. One proof of subjugation she has is that in Uzbekistan, by custom, Jews weren’t allowed into PhD programs. She had a Master’s degree in music theory, was a great student, and taught at a music college, but wasn’t allowed to do a PhD for that reason. Jews weren’t customarily allowed to hold higher offices in Uzbekistan. When she did the interview, she brought her two kids to Moscow. I was 3 years old. She left us with my Aunt’s brother’s family in Moscow at their house while doing the interview. The interviewer remarked that her form said she had kids and was surprised she didn’t bring them. She spent the full day in that embassy and answered, “How could I bring them? My son is  3 years old. What, keep them hungry here all day?” And the interviewer laughed and answered with appreciation, “No, you’re absolutely right. Usually moms bring their kids here in order to show them to us to gain belief or sympathy.”

In America, my mom found a low-paying piano teaching job, and got a second degree at a community college in Computer Information Systems to earn more money, since she had to support us and my grandparents by herself. She actually taught me how to program when I started my undergrad at UR since I couldn’t understand a thing Professor Pawlicki was teaching, but that’s okay, because [he was later cancelled by the student body for telling non-Trump supporters to go to Canada.](https://www.rochesterfirst.com/news/local-news/u-of-r-professor-steps-down-as-program-director-after-controversial-facebook-post/) Actually, this warrants celebrating because he really was a really terrible professor. I did all of the extra credit and everything for his second project, but he found one comment with explanatory concepts within the code still left in there that I didn’t bother to remove since I didn’t cheat or copy any code. He failed me on that project and gave me a -100% for leaving in that comment, and when I emailed him, he argued he was teaching me something about the real world. Ironically, in the real world, that comment would’ve actually been fair game even for commercial use, and in a court could easily be defended under the first amendment as free speech, which I guess he didn’t appreciate. Also, full disclosure: my mom left that comment in, because she was helping me, and we did not move to Canada afterwards. I even got into the doctoral program, and I have an eerily spiritual suspicion that nobody should give my mom a B.

[^1]: Perhaps expand voting privileges to Jews outside of Israel if population ratios are a concern. That’s a better strategy than genocide. The Jewish population of Israel is 7 million. The Palestinian population in Israel is 1.8 million. The Palestinian population in Gaza and the West Bank is 5 million. Nearly half the world’s Jews live in Israel, nearly half live in America, constituting a total of 0.2% of the world’s population. That means if Israel wants to remain a Jewish state and expand to Gazan and/or West Bank territory, their choices are either extremely unethical, *e.g.* what they’re doing now, or do a global Jewish electorate policy, with the only third proposed alternative being a two-state solution of Gaza and the West Bank belonging entirely to Palestine, and Israel giving up imperialist aspirations. America is home to most of the world’s Ashkenazi Jews by the way, with a higher percentage of us here than in Israel, but in total fewer Jews than in Israel. Meanwhile, Palestinians live below the global poverty line and care far more about food, housing, energy, and basic utilities privileges than war. If Israel can guarantee those, then that is a far more realistic pathway to peace than conquering via deportation, apartheid, or genocide. A global Jewish electorate policy is also indirectly a solution to low voter turnout, since a secure internet voting protocol, once implemented, can be used to enfranchise voters anywhere it's implemented, and sets the precedent worldwide so that other nations can follow suit. It’s something that can be done, but is obstructed due to threatening the existing governments, not due to threats of cybersecurity. Despite the former propagandizing about the latter, a secure internet voting protocol in the age of online banking, cryptocurrency, and massive social media giants, is possible. In a global Jewish electorate policy, some votes concerning strictly the geographic region, as opposed to general laws, policies, and Knesset, can be restricted solely to residents, especially on issues where a strong geographic bias can be determined. All residents have an equal vote, Jewish or Palestinian. Only residents can serve in government positions. International voters should be expected to pay taxes within a progressive tax system (accommodating their income) if they wish to vote. International voters should have some incentive to be taxpayers besides being electorally eligible, such as for example a limited number of free flights between their country and Israel and affordable room and board options in Israel, much like the Birthright program, which gives travel opportunities economically indiscriminately, including to financially lower class Jews who would otherwise never get to take a real vacation. 
